# Design Diary - 04/24/2020 - Space Invaders PyGame

For theis project the assignment was to fork a Space Invaders PyGame project from [Github](https://github.com/attreyabhatt/Space-Invaders-Pygame) and make changes to the code. At first, I had a lot of ideas about stuff I could do like adding a scoreboard and maybe learning some sort of AI module. The first thing I did was to make the scoreboard because I had a good idea about how to do it. The first thing I did was to create an input box, with a lot of help from stack overflow, that would store a username as a string and then enter the orignal gameplay when the enter key was pressed. After that I created two objects, a Player class with a score property and a username property, and a Scoreboard class with a list of Players and methods for adding Players, sorting the Player list by high score, creating the Player list from a CSV, and writing the top ten scores to the a CSV. I then added to the game_over_text() function a new Scoreboard, built the list from a CSV, added a new Player with the current username and score, sorted the list, outputed the top 10 scores, and overwrote the CSV file with the new top 10 scores. When I finished this, I thought that it worked, but I didn't realize that the game_over_text() got called everytime, so the new Player would get added as many times as the text updated, which caused all of the scores below that new score to get overwritten. This problem took me a while to fix because I didn't try adding code, and only tried moving my existing code around. After taking a break for a while, I can back and decided to set a flag after game over_text_first got called, and adding an if check around the add player function. This worked because if it was called more than once, no more players would get added, so it would just read and output the scores. After finishing this part, I had no real investment in working on the project, which kind of led me to give up. Recently I've just had a hard time with motivation, and to be honest, I got a little sick of working on video games which made this game far less motivating to work on. I did play around with a few other functionalities, like making a function to space out the enemies a little better (although it is not the best), and I edited the show_score() function and the and the fire_bullet() function to basically create score streaks where the user starts with one bullet, moves to two bullets and gets double points, and then triple points and three bullets at a time. All in all, I know I didn't put in as much effort as I probably could have, and I understand that my grade will reflect that.